README.md, before:

# Opal Media Server

***Opal is currently pre-alpha software. It is not intended for daily-driving yet and lacks many features including lacking support for video streaming entirely. It also has very poor documentation and instructions currently. Progress towards an alpha release is rapidly developing so check back in soon!***

Opal is a personal media management server written in golang. It implements the Jellyfin API allowing for the use of any client in the existing Jellyfin ecosystem like jellyfin-web or the jellyfin android client.

**Opal is intentionally very opinionated. Opal is intended for admins who would rather use ssh and config files to maintain their server than a web dashboard. Opal does not implement the API endpoints required for the use of the jellyfin admin dashboard. Opal is unlikely to ever implement Live TV, Music or Book support. Instead the developer recommends navidrome for personal management of music**

## Features

- **Memory usage:** Opal internally is much simpler than jellyfin and golang's runtime is much smaller than .Net's runtime. When idle with one client connected on a test machine, jellyfin uses ~130MiB of ram and opal uses ~13MiB (Note: idle memory usage will increase as more features are added).
- **No metadata sidecaring:** Jellyfin stores metadata for your personal media inside the directory containing the media. Opal stores its metadata for your personal media in a configurable location seperate from your personal media collection. This means the user running the opal media server binary only needs read and execute permissions to serve your personal media collections.
- **Hardened Authentication (argon2id):** Opal uses argon2id with very secure parameters by default. This causes much slower login times compared to jellyfin but provides industry-level resistance to GPU-accelerated and classical bruteforce attacks.
- **Forced media naming scheme:** Opal only recognises media if it's filename has a substring that matches following pattern: <br>`[{tvshow or movie}-imdb-{imdb id}]` Examples: `[movie-imdb-tt0078748]`, `[tvshow-imdb-tt0412142]`<br>
Movies must be a file (ie not folder with the primary mkv or mp4 inside) and tv shows must be folders which contain seasons (folders) that have identifying substrings in the name (Examples: `S01[s1]`, `Season 2[s2]`, `S3[s3]` etc.) and episode files with substring filenames inside those season folders (Examples: `episode 1[ep1].mkv`, `Episode 02[ep2].mp4`, `[ep3]Episode 3.mkv` etc.). This restrictive naming scheme allows for extremely fast server initialisation, metadata retrieval, and media serving.

## Installation and Setup

*Opal is pre-alpha software, expect bugs, crashes, incomplete features, and incompatibilities with some jellyfin clients.*


1. Modify default configs:

/config/server.cfg:
```
address=0.0.0.0
port=7096
metadata_dir="./metadata"
cache_dir="./cache"
```

/config/theme.css:
```
@import url("https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/lscambo13/ElegantFin@main/Theme/ElegantFin-jellyfin-theme-build-latest-minified.css");
```

2. Create library configs

/config/libraries/example_lib.cfg:
```
display_name="Display name"
path="/path/to/library"
```
*Note: To create multiple libraries, just add another cfg file to config/libraries and restart the server*

3. Create a TMDB config file:

/config/tmdb.cfg
```
# Opal uses TMDB read-access tokens (v4), not v3 api keys
# Direct storage:
api_key="insert TMDB read-acess token here"

# Or via environment variable:
api_key=$TMDB_TOKEN
```

4. Install a jellyfin web frontend:

Download a release build of jellyfin (10.11.6 preferably) and extract `jellyfin-web` to the root of the repository folder. Then rename the folder from `jellyfin-web` to `web`.

5. Create a user
```
go run ./cmd/opal-new-user
```

6. Build or run the server:
```
go run ./cmd/opal
```
or
```
go build ./cmd/opal && ./opal
```

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome. If you are looking for easy ways to help, have a look in `/internal/httpserver/api`. Most API endpoints are stubbed at least partially but wouldn't be terribly hard to complete. Also check out `/todo.txt`. However I ask that you refrain from writing major features, Opal is designed to have a very limited scope and all major features are already implemented or are a work in process. Adding support for the jellyfin admin panel, other media types, or general feature creeping will not be merged. 

## License

Distributed under the GPLv3 License. See LICENSE for more information.

Commit message:

Update README.md to add intended use, copyright compliance, and legal clarity

README.md, after:

# Opal Media Server

***Opal is currently pre-alpha software. It is not intended for daily-driving yet and lacks many features including lacking support for video streaming entirely. It also has very poor documentation and instructions currently. Progress towards an alpha release is rapidly developing so check back in soon!***

Opal is a personal media management server written in golang. It implements the Jellyfin API allowing for the use of any client in the existing Jellyfin ecosystem like jellyfin-web or the jellyfin android client.

**Opal is intentionally very opinionated. Opal is intended for admins who would rather use ssh and config files to maintain their server than a web dashboard. Opal does not implement the API endpoints required for the use of the jellyfin admin dashboard. Opal is unlikely to ever implement Live TV, Music or Book support. Instead the developers recommend navidrome for personal management of lawfully obtained audio media.**

## Intended Use

Opal Media Server is a tool designed for users to manage and access their own lawfully obtained personal media collections. It is intended for use only with content that the user has the legal right to possess and stream. The developers of Opal Media Server do not condone, encourage, or authorize any use that would infringe upon the copyrights of others. The sole intent of the developers is to provide a self-hosted software solution for managing lawfully acquired media. Any other use, including the streaming of unlicensed or pirated content, is a violation of this intended purpose and the software's license terms.

## Features

- **Memory usage:** Opal internally is much simpler than jellyfin and golang's runtime is much smaller than .Net's runtime. When idle with one client connected on a test machine, jellyfin uses ~130MiB of ram and opal uses ~13MiB (Note: idle memory usage will increase as more features are added).
- **No metadata sidecaring:** Jellyfin stores metadata for your personal media inside the directory containing the media. Opal stores its metadata for your personal media in a configurable location seperate from your personal media collection. This means the user running the opal media server binary only needs read and execute permissions to serve your personal media collections.
- **Hardened Authentication (argon2id):** Opal uses argon2id with very secure parameters by default. This causes much slower login times compared to jellyfin but provides industry-level resistance to GPU-accelerated and classical bruteforce attacks.
- **Forced media naming scheme:** Opal only recognises media if it's filename has a substring that matches following pattern: <br>`[{tvshow or movie}-imdb-{imdb id}]` Examples: `[movie-imdb-tt0078748]`, `[tvshow-imdb-tt0412142]`<br>
Movies must be a file (ie not folder with the primary mkv or mp4 inside) and tv shows must be folders which contain seasons (folders) that have identifying substrings in the name (Examples: `S01[s1]`, `Season 2[s2]`, `S3[s3]` etc.) and episode files with substring filenames inside those season folders (Examples: `episode 1[ep1].mkv`, `Episode 02[ep2].mp4`, `[ep3]Episode 3.mkv` etc.). This restrictive naming scheme allows for extremely fast server initialisation, metadata retrieval, and media serving.

> **Note:** This naming convention is a neutral technical requirement for the software to function. It requires the user to identify the specific, legitimate identifier (IMDb ID) for their media and does not facilitate or automate the acquisition of unlicensed content. The feature is designed solely to enable fast server initialisation and metadata retrieval for lawfully obtained files.

## Installation and Setup

*Opal is pre-alpha software, expect bugs, crashes, incomplete features, and incompatibilities with some jellyfin clients.*

> **Note:** As the server operator, you are responsible for the content you choose to index and serve using your instance of Opal Media Server. Please ensure you have the necessary rights for all media served by your instance.

1. Modify default configs:

/config/server.cfg:
```
address=0.0.0.0
port=7096
metadata_dir="./metadata"
cache_dir="./cache"
```

/config/theme.css:
```
@import url("https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/lscambo13/ElegantFin@main/Theme/ElegantFin-jellyfin-theme-build-latest-minified.css");
```

2. Create library configs

/config/libraries/example_lib.cfg:
```
display_name="Display name"
path="/path/to/library"
```
*Note: To create multiple libraries, just add another cfg file to config/libraries and restart the server*

3. Create a TMDB config file:

/config/tmdb.cfg
```
# Opal uses TMDB read-access tokens (v4), not v3 api keys
# Direct storage:
api_key="insert TMDB read-acess token here"

# Or via environment variable:
api_key=$TMDB_TOKEN
```

4. Install a jellyfin web frontend:

Download a release build of jellyfin (10.11.6 preferably) and extract `jellyfin-web` to the root of the repository folder. Then rename the folder from `jellyfin-web` to `web`.

5. Create a user
```
go run ./cmd/opal-new-user
```

6. Build or run the server:
```
go run ./cmd/opal
```
or
```
go build ./cmd/opal && ./opal
```

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome. If you are looking for easy ways to help, have a look in `/internal/httpserver/api`. Most API endpoints are stubbed at least partially but wouldn't be terribly hard to complete. Also check out `/todo.txt`. However I ask that you refrain from writing major features, Opal is designed to have a very limited scope and all major features are already implemented or are a work in process. Adding support for the jellyfin admin panel, other media types, or general feature creeping will not be merged. 

Additionally, contributors are expected to ensure that any proposed code or documentation does not facilitate, encourage, or provide instructions for copyright infringement. The project will not accept contributions that are aimed at bypassing copyright protections or that promote the use of unlicensed content.

## License

Distributed under the GPLv3 License. See LICENSE for more information.

### Disclaimer

Opal Media Server is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, express or implied. The software is a tool, and the developers assume no liability for how users choose to operate it. Users are solely responsible for ensuring that their use of Opal Media Server complies with all applicable laws and copyright regulations in their jurisdiction. The developers do not host any user content and has no control over the media files users choose to index and stream with this software.
